Add cloud configuration support for azure client libraries (#1550)
Azure/azure-sdk: docs/python/clouddiscover.md

# Cloud configuration and discovery

There are multiple Azure Cloud instances. This includes well-known cloud instances such as Public Azure, Azure China Cloud, Azure Government Cloud etc. It also includes private cloud instances that are managed by our customers. An example of this is Azure Stack.

The clouds differ in which endpoints to use when connecting to it. Finding exactly which endpoints to use is challenging for users. This applies both for public clouds and private instances. For private cloud instances, Microsoft does not know the specific endpoints used by the cloud instance. Additionally cloud instances may or may not be reachable from public internet. 

> In order to discover which endpoints (DNS names and suffixes) are to be used when connecting to a specific cloud, a disovery endpoint has been introduced. This reduces the amount of information a developer needs in order to connect to a given cloud to knowing a single endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to discover which endpoints (DNS names and suffixes) are to be used when connecting to a specific cloud, a discovery endpoint has been introduced. This reduces the amount of information a developer needs in order to connect to a given cloud to knowing a single endpoint.
```

## Goals

* Simplify configuring for a client connecting to public clouds other than Public Azure.

> * Allow use of configuration data retreived from cloud configuration discovery endpoint for private cloud instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allow use of configuration data retrieved from cloud configuration discovery endpoint for private cloud instances.
```

## Non-goals

* Automatically discover which cloud an application runs in.
* Change in requirements for client libraries to always accept a simple name (e.g. storage account name) in addition to full endpoint information when constructing clients.

## Core capabilities

* Well-known (public) cloud configurations MUST be built-in to the client libraries for each language. Each well-known cloud configuration has a "simple name" in addition to a set of key/value pairs representing endpoints and suffixes for known services.

> The built-in cloud configurations SHOULD be defined in azure core.

> The simple cloud name MAY be a string or an enum value.

> > The cloud configuration instance MAY be represented by a custom type in strongly typed lanugages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The cloud configuration instance MAY be represented by a custom type in strongly typed languages.
```

* In addition to the well-known cloud configurations, it MUST be possible to construct a custom cloud configuration instance for a specific cloud (e.g. Azure Stack).

* It MUST be possible (and documented how) to load a configuration from the returned information in ARM's discovery endpoint.

> A canonical use-case for this is to, given the metadata configuration endpoint for a given cloud, download the configuration data to a local file.

### Cloud configuration properties

A cloud configuration object consists of a map of service-name to service-specific-configuration-entry as per below:

```json
{
   "<service entry1>": {

>        "endpoint": "<url>",

Reviewer: Should we have higher metadata format:
```
{
   "name": "AzureChina",
   "services": {
        your JSON data
    },
   "name": "MyStack",
   "services": {
        your JSON data
    }
}
```

Author: I assume that you missed an inner array in the example above. Why do you want to have the `"name"` attribute? In general, I try to avoid having arrays-with-objects-that-have-a-unique-key. If you don't, you always have to be on the lookout for duplicate items. I'm not sure if having the name of the configuration item in the object itself has enough value to outweigh the uniqueness problem or the fact that the consumer of the configuration (e.g. the clients) can/will do anything with the value.

## Service specific client library guidance

* Service specific client libraries that have baked-in cloud-specific defaults MUST accept a cloud configuration instance in the constructor (or equivalent) for the service client instance. Client libraries MAY also accept a a simple cloud name.

### Ambient default configuration

* A language MAY provide the capability to set the default cloud to use. 
* If supported, client libraries MUST copy the applicable configuration settings when creating the client (or other configuration-aware) object. If the default configuration is changed after the object has been created, the change MUST NOT be observed by the already created object.

> In most cases, the ambient default configuration will be set during application start-up, much like other process wide configuration data is initialized (e.g. log levels etc.)

### Interaction with other configuration settings

The order of precedence is (in order of decreasing specificity):

* Explicitly provided endpoint parameter passed in value in the method call
* Explicitly provided configuration value from cloud_configuration parameter passed in the method call

> * Ambient default cloud (if supported)

Reviewer: I would expect to to see constructor after "method call", and before "ambient". Or do you mean constructor already? Since I don't think we want to change the endpoint per operation.

Author: I did mean constructor. Updated to "parameter provided when creating the client."

> * Endpoint specific environment variables (e.g. `AZURE_AUTHORITY_HOST`)

Reviewer: Do we need to list the env variables that are mapping your JSON above? In your table above?

Reviewer 2: If not the specific env variable perhaps we can provide a well known pattern for property to env variable name so that we can start to have consistency in how they env variables are named.

Author: We have a [list of "well known" environment variables](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_azurecore.html) in the general design guidelines. Regarding naming, it only includes the requirement that they are prefixed with `AZURE_`. Should we have more specific guidance?

Reviewer 2: It would be nice if there was more guidance around how those look so that we have consistency but I suppose we have to wait and see what patterns emerge to create such a guideline.

Author: Just an observation; we had a flurry of variables getting added early on, but the list hasn't grown much since then.

> * Endpoint specific environment variables (e.g. `AZURE_AUTHORITY_HOST`)

Reviewer 3: We also have the AZURE_CLOUD env var that, I believe, is intended to be used as a flag to select a cloud, i.e. AZURE_CLOUD = Gov, then all the gov endpoints would be used by default for the env.

Author: This interacts in interesting ways with the ambient default cloud. Changed to the following order: Explicitly set (by the application) ambient default cloud > endpoint-specific environment variables > default cloud environment variables.

* Adding a new required configuration property for a given method/API is a breaking change. 

## Example usage 

### Python
```python
# In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
# the Azure China Cloud.
azure.core.settings.set_default_cloud('AzureChinaCloud')

creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential() # We will use the Azure China Cloud's authority (https://login.chinacloudapi.cn) since that is what is configured as the default cloud.

# The default management endpoint from AzureChinaCloud is used
# (picked up from the resourceManager service entry in of the AzureChinaCloud built-in cloud configuration)
client = azure.mgmt.compute.ComputeManagementClient(subscriptionId, creds)

# I can still specify the default authority host to override the default settings...
public_azure_creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential(authority='https://login.windows.net')

# I can also specify a full cloud configuration object:
# In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
# the Azure China Cloud.

> config = CloudConfiguration.from_json(requests.get('https://azurestackinstance1.contoso.com/discover'.json()))

Reviewer: namespace of `CloudConfiguration`? `azure.core.cloud`?

Author: Or `azure.core`. I'm not sure if I'd add another namespace/module just for `CloudConfiguration`.

Author: Added `azure.core.clouds`.

> config = CloudConfiguration.from_json(requests.get('https://azurestackinstance1.contoso.com/discover'.json()))

Reviewer: I understand this is just an example, but I would make explicit in your example/guildelines that we need a "get_cloud_endpoint" like [this](https://github.com/Azure/msrestazure-for-python/blob/7986cdcc41d4131e1d6d866e8c80925921e25969/msrestazure/azure_cloud.py#L235) and we're not telling people to do their own requests (but that from_json is important for a file loading scenario).

Author: I did this intentionally to illustrate that you should be able to use the response from the discovery endpoint as-is. If I used a library method to do this, it would not be clear that it could operate on the exact same schema as the endpoint returns.

azure.core.settings.set_default_cloud(config['AzureStack'])

# ...or pass in a custom cloud configuration into a method
creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential(cloud_configuration=config['PublicAzure'])
```

### C#

```C#
// In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
// the Azure China Cloud.
creds = Azure.Core.Identity.DefaultAzureCredentials(
    Azure.Core.Identity.DefaultAzureCredentialOptions() {
        CloudConfiguration = Azure.Core.CloudConfigurations.AzureChinaCloud
    }
);
```

## Future evolution/addition of per-service endpoint configuration

> * Over time metadata can be added for a given service/new services may be added. Client libraries that depend on the new metadata can set the minimum version of the azure core dependency to ensure that the new metadata is available for well-known clouds.

Reviewer: Should azure.core have a "list_known_cloud" that returns a list of clouds?

Author: Probably. But presumably you know which cloud you are targeting. So the main functionality (I expect) would be to figure out what the programatic name for the cloud you are interested in would be the main use case - and that could probably be solved with documentation.

There are obviously oddball use-cases like the CLI listing clouds. Which is why the API makes sense in the SDK.

# Cloud configuration and discovery

> There are multiple Azure Cloud instances. This includes well-known cloud instances such as Public Azure, Azure China Cloud, Azure Government Cloud etc. It also includes private cloud instances that are managed by our customers. An example of this is Azure Stack.

Author: Need to talk to @schaabs about how to possibly plumb auth through from config.

The clouds differ in which endpoints to use when connecting to it. Finding exactly which endpoints to use is challenging for users. This applies both for public clouds and private instances. For private cloud instances, Microsoft does not know the specific endpoints used by the cloud instance. Additionally cloud instances may or may not be reachable from public internet.

In order to discover which endpoints (DNS names and suffixes) are to be used when connecting to a specific cloud, a discovery endpoint has been introduced. This reduces the amount of information a developer needs in order to connect to a given cloud to knowing a single endpoint.

## Goals

* Simplify configuring for a client connecting to public clouds other than Public Azure.
* Allow use of configuration data retrieved from cloud configuration discovery endpoint for private cloud instances.

## Non-goals

* Automatically discover which cloud an application runs in and default libraries to use that by default.

> * Change in requirements for client libraries to always accept a simple name (e.g. storage account name) in addition to full endpoint information when constructing clients.

Author: Not based on the requirements outlined in this document, no. I don't think sovereign/alternate cloud configurations introduces any new requirement than those we had when the general guidelines to require full endpoints were decided upon.

Do you think it should?

> * Change in requirements for client libraries to always accept a simple name (e.g. storage account name) in addition to full endpoint information when constructing clients.

Reviewer 4: I would prefer for this to be an option on client options, not a requirement, though I might be misinterpreting what you mean by "always".

> * Change in requirements for client libraries to always accept a simple name (e.g. storage account name) in addition to full endpoint information when constructing clients.

Author: My intent was to specify that the addition of cloud configurations does not change any requirements to take simple names in addition to full URLs from before. Any service that requires a full URL/endpoint to day will continue to require the user specify a full URL/endpoint.

## Core capabilities

> * Well-known (public) cloud configurations MUST be built-in to the client libraries for each language. Each well-known cloud configuration has a "simple name" in addition to a set of key/value pairs representing endpoints and suffixes for known services.

Author: Yes. I originally had the auth endpoints per service. But after talking to @schaabs  and @chlowell, I moved them to a single "global" section. I'm not entirely happy with the name `global`, however, so any suggestions on what to rename it to would be very appreciated.

> * Well-known (public) cloud configurations MUST be built-in to the client libraries for each language. Each well-known cloud configuration has a "simple name" in addition to a set of key/value pairs representing endpoints and suffixes for known services.

Reviewer 4: What are the keys and what are the values in these KVPs?

> * Well-known (public) cloud configurations MUST be built-in to the client libraries for each language. Each well-known cloud configuration has a "simple name" in addition to a set of key/value pairs representing endpoints and suffixes for known services.

Reviewer 3: Ideally they follow the same pattern and names as what is returned by Azure CLI / PSH, az cloud list.

> * Well-known (public) cloud configurations MUST be built-in to the client libraries for each language. Each well-known cloud configuration has a "simple name" in addition to a set of key/value pairs representing endpoints and suffixes for known services.

Author: The problem with `az cloud list` is that it is very random in the structure of what it returns.

> The built-in cloud configurations MUST be defined in azure core.

> > The simple cloud name MAY be a string or an enum value.

Reviewer 4: Why? It seems like some of the requirements below have too much detail. For example, I can imagine cloud names being properties in .NET, e.g. Cloud.Governemt.Enable = true;

Author: I can reduce the requirements if there are other ways to accomplish the same task. 

There is a hard requirement to support clouds other than well known clouds. Azure stack is one example. Whatever solution you have would have to support a developer to be able to target two separate stack instances from a single application.

Reviewer 3: I believe that by introducing the enum version of this we are required to include the clause below about changes being breaking changes.

As much as I like enums, do we want to not do enums so that the config bag can be more flexible and not require a breaking change to change it?

> The cloud configuration instance MAY be represented by a custom type in strongly typed languages.

* In addition to the well-known cloud configurations, it MUST be possible to construct a custom cloud configuration for a specific cloud instance (e.g. Azure Stack).

> * The core library MUST provide a mechanism to list well-known cloud instance names.

Reviewer 4: What's the scenario for listing them?

Author: Both powershell and the CLI needs those capabilities. As would presumably other management tools.

```python

> for known_cloud in azure.core.clouds.well_known:

Author: Baked into azure core.

  print(known_cloud)
```

> * It MUST be possible (and documented how) to load a configuration from the returned information in ARM's discovery endpoint. Unknown configuration data retrieved from the ARM discovery endpoint (e.g. configuration data associated with new services) MUST be ignored.

Reviewer 4: Could you point to REST API docs for this endpoint? I tried to search it and was not clear which API it is.

Author: I will try to find the public documentation. I used the internal docs when I wrote the proposal :). The endpoint is there in public azure, but I'm not sure if our docs pages render it correctly (it doesn't follow the standard API pattern for ARM)

Reviewer 3: this is how you register a cloud:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/cloud?view=azure-cli-latest#az_cloud_register

REST ENDPOINT https://management.azure.com/metadata/endpoints?api-version=2019-05-01

> A canonical use-case for this is to, given the metadata configuration endpoint for a given cloud, download the configuration data to a local file.

### Cloud configuration properties

A cloud configuration object consists of a map of service-name to service-specific-configuration-entry as per below:

```jsonc
{
  "global": {

>     "endpoint": "<url>",

Author: I assume you mean `ADFS` vs `AAD`?

    "authentication": {
      "audiences": [
        "<optional audiences>"
      ]
    }
  },
  "<service entry1>": {
    "endpoint": "<url>",
    "suffix": "<suffix>",
    "authentication": {
      "audiences": [
        "<optional audiences>"
      ]
    }
  },
  "<service entry2>": {
    "endpoint": "<url>",
    "suffix": "<suffix>",
    "authentication": {
      "audiences": [
          "<optional audiences>"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> |Property|Description|Example|

Reviewer 2: Would it also be interesting to specific the api version supported by this service endpoint?

Author: My intent is to not include information that is changing over time into the configuration. Encoding the "current state of the cloud" adds a bunch of complications (e.g. stuff gets out of date over time - especially when clients have serialized the configuration data in to local storage).

This information is currently not exposed by the metadata endpoint. So unless it gets added there, loading the configuration from the metadata endpoint would not be able to make it available. The official REST API guidelines state that all services should support HTTP `OPTIONS` requests to query what API versions are available - however, I'm not sure how many (if any) services actually support this correctly. 

@weshaggard, what scenario would you want to light up using this information? I can see two different use cases; know what API version the cloud supports and client applications wanting to specify which API version to use by default for a given service....

Reviewer 2: I was mostly thinking about how our client libraries default to the latest api version and depending on what cloud they connect to that might cause problems if the cloud doesn't support that version. So customers that are specifying a cloud configuration may be required to first figure out and then specify the correct version. What is worse is that they will need to manually maintain that version overtime as well. All that seems like a recipe for errors that it would be great if we could come up with some way to query the information. 

I know this is a bigger problem and there are other issues like https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/issues/1198 discussing this but at the very least these guidelines should provide guidance for how folks should get the versions. I guess I was somewhat hoping this configuration service you are referring too was still being developed and if so then we could somehow pull in the versions with it.

Author: Ah, for that, there is a separate construct (API profiles) that clouds are supposed to expose: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/user/azure-stack-version-profiles?view=azs-2008.

Additionally, service instances should include which API version they support when rejecting a call. So, while it may not be pretty, assuming that the client library supports multiple API versions, it is relatively straight-forward to adjust while trying things out. What historically was a pain for single-api-version packages was to try to map the API version to the corresponding library version.

I would *not* expect clients to dynamically pull the API version and adjust according to what the cloud supports other than for very specific applications that are designed to dynamically change its behavior based on the target cloud capabilities. This is rare. And you would almost always have to put a "ceiling" on which API versions you support since there is no guarantee that the new update that was deployed overnight on the cloud instance that you are targeting didn't break your application in a more or less subtle way.

Reviewer 2: Ok I do still think it is at least worth calling out in these guidelines what the expectation is around picking the correct versions.

Reviewer 4: Since we will be adding APIs to Azure Core, maybe we add an API to override the default API version. This would be more convenient than chasing every single client instance. 

Also, we need to think how that would work for reusable libraries.

Author: My opinion: we should allow user to specify the profile they want to use at a global/default level. This is related to but not exactly the same as configuring which cloud to use. 

Reusable libraries should still be explicit about the API version used (for internal usage/they need to understand the response) or omit it (if they are just transparently passing data around/use the types from the library as exchange types).

Author: Version numbers should not be baked into the host.

|-|-|-|
|endpoint|Absolute URL (including domain name) for the service. Used by multitenant services.|`https://management.microsoftazure.de`
|suffix|Clouds specific domain suffix for the service. Used for single tenant services with unique hostname per instance/account.|`.vault.microsoftazure.de`
|audiences|List of audiences for the given service|
|tenant|Tenant used to authenticate the given service|

> where `<service entry>` is (currently) one of the following values:

Reviewer 3: I don't think it is a 1:1 URL:RP mapping, but I do like the idea of being able to map these via some well known static string like RP name.

|Name|Notes|
|-|-|
|`global`|Global per-cloud configuration (e.g. auth endpoint etc.). Required|
|`batch`|Batch service endpoint|
|`containerRegistry`|Azure Container Registry|
|`dataLakeAnalyticsCatalogAndJob`||
|`dataLakeStorageFileSystem`||

> |`graph`||

Author: Which library is using the gallery endpoint?

|`keyvault`||
|`media`|Media services service endpoint|
|`portal`|Portal address|
|`resourceManager`||
|`sql`||
|`sqlManagement`||
|`storage`||

> None of then individual properties in a service configuration entry are required as they differ between different services (e.g. a service can have a well-known endpoint or a suffix, but it never has both)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
None of the individual properties in a service configuration entry are required as they differ between different services (e.g. a service can have a well-known endpoint or a suffix, but it never has both)
```

> Note that this format differs from the raw json exposed by the discovery endpoint. The endpoint discovery response is not structured on a per-service basis, which makes it harder to evolve the set of metadata in the response.

> A given language can choose to expose the configuration as a dictionary or as a strongly typed class.

* It MUST be possible to persist and load configuration objects.

## Service specific client library guidance

> * Service specific client libraries that have baked-in cloud-specific defaults MUST accept a cloud configuration instance in the constructor (or equivalent) for the service client instance. Client libraries MAY also accept a a simple cloud name.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Service specific client libraries that have baked-in cloud-specific defaults MUST accept a cloud configuration instance in the constructor (or equivalent) for the service client instance. Client libraries MAY also accept a simple cloud name.
```

> > Examples of cloud specific defaults include hostnames (for services sharing a common DNS name, such as ARM) and host name suffixes (for client libraries that concatenate a "simple" service name with a suffix to build the full DNS name to connect to).

Author: Yes. We should add an optional scopes to the configuration schema.

### Ambient default configuration

* A language MAY provide the capability to set the default cloud to use. 
* If supported, client libraries MUST copy the applicable configuration settings when creating the client (or other configuration-aware) object. If the default configuration is changed after the object has been created, the change MUST NOT be observed by the already created object.

> In most cases, the ambient default configuration will be set during application start-up, much like other process wide configuration data is initialized (e.g. log levels etc.)

### Interaction with other configuration settings

The order of precedence is (in order of decreasing specificity):

> * Explicitly provided configuration value from cloud_configuration parameter provided when creating the client.

Reviewer 6: What about non cloud-config values specified on a client?  In other words, if someone specifies half of what's necessary to instantiate a client, do we pull the other half from cloud-config settings in this order?

Author: Yes.

* Ambient default cloud (if supported) explicitly set by the application.
* Endpoint specific environment variables (e.g. `AZURE_AUTHORITY_HOST`)
* Cloud specified in the `AZURE_CLOUD` environment variable. 

> * Final fallback, corresponding Public Azure's settings (built in to the client library)

Reviewer 4: Would it be reasonable to start with simple chain? client setting > global setting > default

Author: This is more or less what I have here - with the only twist that we *already* have bespoke environment variables for some settings (e.g. `AZURE_AUTHORITY_HOST`)

> * Final fallback, corresponding Public Azure's settings (built in to the client library)

Reviewer 5: Just confirming: is this final bullet point referring to the various 'endpoint' APIs we have in our constructors / builders today?

Author: Yes. Is there any way I can rephrase to make it more clear?

### Missing configuration properties

Given that more configuration settings can be added over time, you may run into a situation where not all configuration settings that a client library needs are populated in a provided cloud configuration entry. If a cloud configuration is provided, but a client library cannot find the configuration setting it expects, the method MUST fail.

> In most languages, the failure is exposed as an exception.

> * Methods that accept a configuration object that is missing one or more configuration settings that it expects MUST raise an error. The error message MUST be clear enough for the developer to understand what data is missing and how to supply it.

Reviewer 4: How are we going to develop it and test it? Seems like it would be very expensive. Maybe LLC is the answer here, i..e when call fails, the users needs to modify the request.

Author: Nah, look in the configuration passed in and raise an exception if something you needed isn't available.

> * Adding a new required configuration property for a given method/API is a breaking change. 

Reviewer 5: I'm having trouble on these two points. I read above that configuration was passed in at construction of the service client. I don't know how these two points above relate to that - in what context is there a method that accepts a configuration object, or are you talking about validating the configuration at service client instantiation time?

Author: In this context, the constructor is a "method" (or it can be a factory method). Or, for languages that support module level methods etc (e.g. Python), a module level helper methods. In other words, in practical terms, this is most commonly going to apply to construction of clients, but it also can apply to anything that, internally, creates a service client instance.

## Example usage

### Python

```python

> from azure.core.clouds import CloudConfiguration

Reviewer 7: Also, I think we should have guidance and example  around the actual endpoint metadata discovery protocol.  There is a JEDI requirement that we use a single endpoint for discovering available endpoint metadata.  Would be nice to see this, and also, a sample of using discovery metadata to populate a configuration object.

Author: ```python
config: typing.Mapping[str, CloudConfiguration] = {
   data['name']: CloudConfiguration.from_metadata_dict(data)
   for data in requests.get('https://azurestackinstance1.contoso.com/discover?api-version=2019-05-01'.json()
 }
```

is an example on how to load from a cloud instance's metadata endpoint (although I realize that the example is using the wrong endpoint URL - I have update this).

# In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
# the Azure China Cloud.

> azure.core.settings.cloud_configuration = 'AzureChinaCloud'

Reviewer 6: Does this value stay a string in this case?  It'd be nice if this had all the properties of my current cloud if I wanted to write something really generic that lit up based on the current environment.  (I know that's half of a non-goal, but if you're creating somewhere global state can hang I think that's how people will use it.)

creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential() # We will use the Azure China Cloud's authority (https://login.chinacloudapi.cn) since that is what is configured as the default cloud.

# The default management endpoint from AzureChinaCloud is used
# (picked up from the resourceManager service entry in of the AzureChinaCloud built-in cloud configuration)
client = azure.mgmt.compute.ComputeManagementClient(subscriptionId, creds)

# I can still specify the default authority host to override the default settings...
public_azure_creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential(authority='https://login.windows.net')

# I can also specify a full cloud configuration object:
# In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
# the Azure China Cloud.

> azure.core.settings.cloud_configuration = azure.core.clouds.well_known['AzureChinaCloud']

Reviewer 7: in this instance, does authority and other authentication settings come from the cloud configuration?

Author: Yes.

Author: More specifically, from the `global` section of the configuration.

# ...or pass in a custom cloud configuration instance into a method
config: typing.Mapping[str, CloudConfiguration] = {
  data['name']: CloudConfiguration.from_metadata_dict(data)
  for data in requests.get('https://azurestackinstance1.contoso.com/discover?api-version=2019-05-01'.json()

> }

Reviewer 6: Why doesn't CloudConfiguration have something that just takes the URI instead of making everyone write a dict comprehension?  Or this logic not general purpose in some important way?

Author: The main reason is that I don't trust the evolution of this API. It wasn't as much designed as it grew out of necessity.

creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential(cloud_configuration=config['AzureStackInstance1'])

# ...or by name
creds = azure.identity.DefaultAzureCredential(cloud_configuration='PublicAzure')

> ```

Reviewer 4: It's not clear to me why we offer so many options. Is there a reason besides that we can?

Author: It is a common practice in Python to "overload" methods that take "well-known instance with name in addition to custom instances" to, accept the name.

> 

Reviewer 6: I tried to very roughly translate that to a first guess at how I could imagine C# looking:

```C#
using Azure.Core;
using Azure.Identity;
using Azure.ResourceManager.Compute;

// In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
// the Azure China Cloud.
AzureConfiguration.Default = AzureConfiguration.AzureChinaCloud; // or AzureConfiguration["AzureChinaCloud"];

// We will use the Azure China Cloud's authority (https://login.chinacloudapi.cn) since that is what is configured as the default cloud.
var creds = new DefaultAzureCredential();

// The default management endpoint from AzureChinaCloud is used
// (picked up from the resourceManager service entry in of the AzureChinaCloud built-in cloud configuration)
var client = new ComputeManagementClient(subscriptionId, creds)

// I can still specify the default authority host to override the default settings...
var options = new DefaultAzureCredentialOptions { AuthorityHost = new Uri("https://login.windows.net") };
var publicAzureCreds = new DefaultAzureCredential(options);

// I can also specify a full cloud configuration object:
// In order to default to switch all default values to match the expected configuration for
// the Azure China Cloud.
AzureConfiguration.Default = AzureConfiguration.AzureChinaCloud; // or AzureConfiguration["AzureChinaCloud"];

// ...or pass in a custom cloud configuration instance into a method
var config = await AzureConfiguration.GetAsync(new Uri("https://azurestackinstance1.contoso.com/discover?api-version=2019-05-01"));
options = new DefaultAzureCredentialOptions { AzureConfiguration = config["AzureStackInstance1"] };
creds = new DefaultAzureCredential(options);

// ...or by name
options = new DefaultAzureCredentialOptions { AzureConfiguration = AzureConfiguration.AzurePublicCloud };
creds = new DefaultAzureCredential(options);
```

# Cloud configuration and discovery

There are multiple Azure Cloud instances. This includes well-known cloud instances such as Public Azure, Azure China Cloud, Azure Government Cloud etc. It also includes private cloud instances that are managed by our customers. An example of this is Azure Stack.

The clouds differ in which endpoints to use when connecting to it. Finding exactly which endpoints to use is challenging for users. This applies both for public clouds and private instances. For private cloud instances, Microsoft does not know the specific endpoints used by the cloud instance. Additionally cloud instances may or may not be reachable from public internet.

> In order to discover which endpoints (DNS names and suffixes) are to be used when connecting to a specific cloud, a discovery endpoint has been introduced. This reduces the amount of information a developer needs in order to connect to a given cloud to knowing a single endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To discover which endpoints (DNS names and suffixes) are to be used when connecting to a specific cloud, a discovery endpoint will be introduced. This reduces the amount of information a developer needs to connect to a given cloud to knowing a single endpoint.
```

## Goals

> * Simplify configuring for a client connecting to public clouds other than Public Azure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Simplify configuring for a client connecting to clouds other than Public Azure.
```

Reviewer 3: The reason I suggestion removing 'public' is because I believe this helps not just public, but all clouds.

* Allow use of configuration data retrieved from cloud configuration discovery endpoint for private cloud instances.

## Non-goals

> * Automatically discover which cloud an application runs in and default libraries to use that by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Automatically discover which cloud an application runs in and set that as a default for libraries to use.
```

> * Automatically discover which cloud an application runs in and default libraries to use that by default.

Reviewer 3: Because you put this as a non-goal I had to think about why that would be a non-goal, but I can see it being useful.

For example, when I new up DefaultAzureCredential it would be nice if it detected what cloud I'm running in and use the appropriate authority host.  Or, if we can't do that because of state or perf, then it would be nice to pass a config object by name to Options, like we can with Fluent today.

`var options = new TokenCredentialOptions{ Cloud = Azure.Gov };`

And that sets context for that options object.

Reviewer 3: Comment after reading whole doc:

You mention below that defaults are set by globals.  I think it would be helpful to clarify the difference between what you are saying above and below.

https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk/pull/1550/files#diff-d7561b23069d83b9178f5d3d15fb8b6f2d4c69305a7f5bde1eea91e521a9717eR163

### Ambient default configuration

* A language MAY provide the capability to set the default cloud to use. 
* If supported, client libraries MUST copy the applicable configuration settings when creating the client (or other configuration-aware) object. If the default configuration is changed after the object has been created, the change MUST NOT be observed by the already created object.

> In most cases, the ambient default configuration will be set during application start-up, much like other process wide configuration data is initialized (e.g. log levels etc.)

### Interaction with other configuration settings

The order of precedence is (in order of decreasing specificity):

* Explicitly provided configuration value from cloud_configuration parameter provided when creating the client.
* Ambient default cloud (if supported) explicitly set by the application.
* Endpoint specific environment variables (i.e. `AZURE_AUTHORITY_HOST`)
* Cloud specified in the `AZURE_CLOUD` environment variable.
* Final fallback, corresponding Public Azure's settings (built in to the client library)

### Missing configuration properties

> Given that more configuration settings can be added over time, you may run into a situation where not all configuration settings that a client library needs are populated in a provided cloud configuration entry. If a cloud configuration is provided, but a client library cannot find the configuration setting it expects, the method MUST fail.

Reviewer 3: It would be great to have a fall back mechanism.  

i.e., if we don't find the value, then use the user supplied default.

var endpoint = getendpoint("KEY", "default endpoint")
